commercialsupport.rst, before:

******************
Commercial Support
******************

Lambda Foundry
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
.. image:: /_static/lambda_foundry_logo.png
	:alt: Lambda Foundry Logo
	:align: left

In 2012, Wes McKinney, the original architect and primary author of *pandas*, co-founded a company to support the continued development of powerful open source data analysis tools in Python, and to create domain-specific commercial products. `Lambda Foundry <http://www.lambdafoundry.com>`_	 is a Manhattan-based software development company. Banks, Hedge Funds, Advertising Platforms, and Research Academics have engaged Lambda Foundry to help build their research environments and production infrastructure. 

Wes is a regular speaker at Python Conferences, a guest lecturer at Rice University, and has spoken in front of various Python and R user groups.

AQR Capital Management
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
.. image:: /_static/aqr_capital_management_logo.png
	:alt: AQR Capital Management Logo
	:align: left

In 2008, *pandas* development began at `AQR Capital Management <http://www.aqr.com>`_. By the end of 2009, AQR was kind enough to open source the development. They remain heavy users of the *pandas* library in their mission-critical production infrastructure, and continue to contribute reports of any issues they encounter.

Commit message:

improved copy for commercial support

commercialsupport.rst, after:

******************
Commercial Support
******************

Lambda Foundry
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
.. image:: /_static/lambda_foundry_logo.png
	:alt: Lambda Foundry Logo
	:align: left
	:scale: 75%
	:target: http://www.lambdafoundry.com

Co-founded in 2012 by Wes McKinney, the original architect and primary author of *pandas*, `Lambda Foundry <http://www.lambdafoundry.com>`_ is a Manhattan-based software company supporting ongoing development in *pandas*. Lambda Foundry offers consulting, training, and support for *pandas*. Lambda Foundry is also developing RapidQuant, a quant research workbench for financial firms. `See their website <http://www.lambdafoundry.com>`_ for more information.

AQR Capital Management
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
.. image:: /_static/aqr_capital_management_logo.png
	:alt: AQR Capital Management Logo
	:align: left
	:scale: 80%
	:target: http://www.aqr.com

In 2008, *pandas* development began at `AQR Capital Management <http://www.aqr.com>`_. By the end of 2009, AQR was kind enough to open source the development. They remain heavy users of the *pandas* library in their mission-critical production infrastructure, and continue to contribute reports of any issues they encounter.
