community.rst, before:

**********************
The *pandas* community
**********************

Please direct user and developer questions to the `mailing list
<http://groups.google.com/group/pystatsmodels>`_. If you encounter any bugs, please report them using the `Issue
Tracker
<https://github.com/pydata/pandas/issues?labels=Bug&sort=created&direction=desc&state=open&page=1>`__.

To learn more about how to contribute to the ongoing development of *pandas*, please check out our `developer page <developers.html>`__.

History of Development
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

In 2008, *pandas* development began at `AQR Capital Management
<http://www.aqr.com>`_. By the end of 2009 it had been `open sourced
<http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Open_source>`_, and is actively supported today
by `Lambda Foundry <http://www.lambdafoundry.com>`_, a company focused on
building high-performance and high-productivity tools for Finance. Please see
the `commercial support <commercialsupport.html>`_ page for full details.

There is also a community of like-minded individuals around the world who
contribute their valuable time and energy to help make open source *pandas*
possible. Thank you to `all of our contributors
<https://github.com/pydata/pandas/contributors>`_.

Commit message:

rewrote community page to direct people to stack exchange and github above the mailing list

community.rst, after:

**********************
The *pandas* community
**********************

Have a question about *pandas*? Your first stop should be `Stack Overflow
<http://stackoverflow.com/questions/ask>`__. Search for an existing answer to
your question, or post a new one (and make sure you include the "*pandas*"
tag).

Next, you should visit the `issue tracker
<https://github.com/pydata/pandas/issues>`__, where all bugs and enhancements
are logged and discussed. Search for relevant existing issues to comment on,
or submit your own.

To learn more about how to contribute to the ongoing development of *pandas*,
please check out our `developer page <developers.html>`_. For deeper
development discussions related to the direction of the project, you can join
the developer `mailing list <http://groups.google.com/group/pystatsmodels>`__.

History of Development
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

In 2008, *pandas* development began at `AQR Capital Management
<http://www.aqr.com>`_. By the end of 2009 it had been `open sourced
<http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Open_source>`_, and is actively supported today
by `Lambda Foundry <http://www.lambdafoundry.com>`_, a company focused on
building high-performance and high-productivity tools for Finance. Please see
the `commercial support <commercialsupport.html>`_ page for full details.

There is also a community of like-minded individuals around the world who
contribute their valuable time and energy to help make open source *pandas*
possible. Thank you to `all of our contributors
<https://github.com/pydata/pandas/contributors>`_.
